docs: #1231 adding retention.local.target to Manage Disk Space page (#1279)
redpanda-data/documentation: versioned_docs/version-22.3/manage/cluster-maintenance/disk-utilization.mdx

> ## Configure message retention

Author: Please see https://github.com/redpanda-data/documentation/issues/1042

By default, all self-hosted topics using Redpanda Tiered Storage keep the last 24 hours of data on local disk. Redpanda Cloud keeps the last 12 hours of data. However, if data is written fast enough to consume all disk space within the local retention time period, it's possible to exhaust local disk space, even when using Tiered Storage. You can adjust the default local storage size or time period, if required.

> Retention properties control how long messages are kept on disk before they're deleted or compacted. Setting message retention properties is the best way to prevent old messages from accumulating on disk to the point that the disk becomes full. When set, Redpanda keeps actively-used and sequential (next segment) data in the local cache and targets to maintain this age of data in local storage. It purges data based on actual available local volume space, without forcing disk full situations when there is data skew. You can configure retention properties to delete messages based on the following conditions:

Reviewer: >When set, Redpanda keeps actively-used and sequential (next segment) data in the local cache and targets to maintain this age of data in local storage. It purges data based on actual available local volume space, without forcing disk full situations when there is data skew.

These sentences are a bit ambiguous and could cause confusion between the local raft storage (governed by retention settings) and the local tiered storage cache (governed by a fixed cache size).  I think we can perhaps just remove these sentences and stick to explaining the retention settings.

| Retention property | Cluster level | Topic level <br /> (overrides cluster configuration) |
| ---               | ---                                                |  ---                                 |

> | Time-based        | `delete_retention_ms` <br /> Default - `604800000` | `retention.ms`, `retention.local.target.ms` <br /> No default     |

Reviewer: Can we add the cluster level `retention_local_target_ms_default` here?  And `retention_local_target_bytes_default` for the next row.

Author: Thanks, @jcsp! Please review the [updated table](https://deploy-preview-1279--redpanda-documentation.netlify.app/docs/manage/cluster-maintenance/disk-utilization/#configure-message-retention).  Should the descriptions be different between the Tiered-storage vs non-Tiered properties? Something like Time-based (Tiered storage only), where Tiered Storage is where the *local*  properties take effect?

Reviewer: Perhaps, I'm not sure of the best way to present it.  It seems like the prose is clear on the way the local.target settings control local retention in the context of tiered storage, whereas other settings control the overall retention, but maybe there's a way to make that clearer in the table as well.

  rpk cluster config set retention_bytes <retention_size>
  ```

### Local retention with Tiered Storage

Redpanda Tiered Storage provides the ability to offload log segments to cloud storage in near real time. Tiered Storage can be combined with local storage to provide long-term data retention and disaster recovery on a per-topic basis. 

You can use topic-level properties to control retention of topic data in local storage. Similar to `retention.ms` and `retention.bytes`, data expires from local storage following `retention.local.target.ms` or `retention.local.target.bytes`. The properties default to an optimized local data expiration. 

> When set, Redpanda keeps actively-used and sequential (next segment) data in the local cache and targets to maintain this age of data in local storage. It purges data based on actual available local volume space, without forcing disk full situations when there is data skew. Redpanda Cloud sets `retention.local.target` to 12 hours.

Reviewer: The guidance about default local retention using local disk space should be the first sentence in the section -- that's the motivation for having text here as well as in the "manage local capacity..." page.

Something like:

> Topics using Redpanda Tiered Storage will keep the most recent 24 hours of data on local disk by default (12 hours in Redpanda Cloud).  It is possible to exhaust local disk even when using tiered storage, if data is written fast enough to consume all disk space within the local retention time period: this period can be adjusted if required.

... then a second paragraph to say what the settings are and link to the other page for more detail.

Author: Thanks @jcsp and @Feediver1! Please review this updated section: https://deploy-preview-1279--redpanda-documentation.netlify.app/docs/manage/cluster-maintenance/disk-utilization/#configure-message-retention. 

@shorgi: It looks like `retention_bytes` is included [here](https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/reference/cluster-properties/#retention_bytes), but not `retention.ms`, `retention.local.target.ms`, or `retention.local.target.bytes`.

When compaction is configured, topics take their size from `compacted_log_segment_size`. The `log_segment_size` property does not apply to compacted topics. 

> Setting a `segment.bytes` size on a topic applies whether the topic is compacted or not, and the `max_compacted_log_segment_size` property applies to compacted topics regardless of the other properties. It controls how many segments are merged together. For example, if you set `segment.bytes` to 128 MB, but leave `max_compacted_log_segment_size` at 5 GB, you get 128 MB segments when they're written, but up to 5 GB segments after compaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting a `segment.bytes` size on a topic applies whether the topic is compacted or not, and the `max_compacted_log_segment_size` property applies to compacted topics regardless of any other properties. The `max_compacted_log_segment_size` property controls how many segments are merged together. For example, if you set `segment.bytes` to 128 MB, but leave `max_compacted_log_segment_size` at 5 GB, then you get 128 MB segments when they're written, but up to 5 GB segments after compaction.
```
